Psalm 79 to 88.
The Book of Psalms.
King James Version.
Psalm 79.
O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance.
Thy holy temple have they defiled, they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.
The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven,
the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.
Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem, and there was none to bury them.
We are become a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.
How long, O Lord, wilt thou be angry forever? Shall thy jealousy burn like fire?
Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not
thy name. For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place. O,
remember not against us former iniquities, let thy tender mercy speedily prevent us,
for we are brought very low. Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name,
and deliver us, and purge away our sins for thy name's sake.
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God?
Let him be known among the heathen in our sight, by the revenging of the blood of thy servants
which is shed. Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee. According to the greatness of
thy power, preserve thou those that are appointed to die, and render unto our neighbors sevenfold
into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord. So we thy people
and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks forever. We will show forth thy praise
to all generations. Psalm 80
Give ear, O shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock, thou that dwellest
between the cherubims, shine forth, before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh. Stir up thy strength
and save us. Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. O Lord,
God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people? Thou feedest them with
the bread of tears, and givest them tears to drink in great measure. Thou makest us a strife
unto our neighbors, and our enemies laugh among themselves. Turn us again, O God of hosts,
and cause thy face to shine, and we shall be saved. Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt,
thou hast cast out the heathen and planted it, thou preparest room before it, and didst
cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land. The hills were covered with the shadow of it,
and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars. She sent out her boughs unto the sea,
and her branches unto the river. Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they
which pass by the way do pluck her? The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of
the field doth devour it. Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts, look down from heaven,
and behold, and visit this vine, and the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch
that thou made is strong for thyself. It is burned with fire, it is cut down,
they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance. Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand,
upon the son of man whom thou made is strong for thyself. So will not we go back from thee,
quicken us, and we will call upon thy name. Turn us again, O Lord, God of hosts, cause thy face
to shine, and we shall be saved. Psalm 81. Sing aloud unto God our strength. Make a joyful
noise unto the God of Jacob. Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp,
with the psaltery. Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed on our solemn feast
day. For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob. This he ordained in Joseph
for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt, where I heard a language that I
understood not. I removed his shoulder from the burden, his hands were delivered from the pots.
Thou cult'st in trouble, and I delivered thee. I answered thee in the secret place of thunder.
I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah. Here, O my people, and I will testify unto thee,
O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me, there shall no strange God be in thee,
neither shalt thou worship any strange God. I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the
land of Egypt. Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. But my people would not hearken to my voice,
and Israel would none of me. So I gave them up unto their own heart's lust,
and they walked in their own counsels. O that my people had hearkened unto me,
and Israel had walked in my ways. I should soon have subdued their enemies,
and turned my hand against their adversaries. The haters of the Lord should have submitted
themselves unto him, but their time should have endured for ever. He should have fed them also
with the finest of the wheat, and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.
Psalm 82 God standeth in the congregation of the mighty, he judgeth among the gods.
How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Say la! Defend the
poor and fatherless, do justice to the afflicted and needy, deliver the poor and needy, rid them
out of the hand of the wicked. They know not, neither will they understand, they walk on in
darkness. All the foundations of the earth are out of course. I have said ye are gods,
and all of you are children of the Most High, but ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the
princes. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for thou shalt inherit all nations.
Psalm 83 Keep not thou silence, O God, hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God, for lo, thine
enemies make a tumult, and they that hate thee have lifted up the head. They have taken crafty
counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, Come, let us cut
them off from being a nation, that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. For they
have consulted together with one consent, they are confederate against thee, the tabernacles of Edom,
and the Ishmaelites of Moab and the Hagarines, Gebel and Ammon and Amalek the Philistines with
the inhabitants of Tyre. Aesir also is joined with them. They have hopened the children of Lot.
Do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Jabin at the brook of Kaishon,
which perished at Endor, they became as dung for the earth. Make their nobles like Orib,
and like Zebe, yea, all their princes as Zeba, and as Zalmunna, who said, Let us take to ourselves
the houses of God in possession. O my God, make them like a wheel, as the stubble before the wind,
as the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire. So persecute them
with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm. Fill their faces with shame,
that they may seek thy name, O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever, yea,
let them be put to shame and perish, that men may know that thou, whose name alone is Jehovah, art
the most high over all the earth. Psalm 84 How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts!
My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh cryeth out for
the living God. Yea, the sparrow hath found a house, and the swallow a nest for herself,
where she may lay her young even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my king and my God. Blessed are
they that dwell in thy house. They will be still praising thee, say la. Blessed is the man whose
strength is in thee, in whose heart are the ways of them, who passing through the valley of Baca,
make it a well, the rain also filleth the pools. They go from strength to strength,
every one of them in Zion appeareth before God. O Lord, God of hosts, hear my prayer,
give ear, O God of Jacob, say la. Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed,
for a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper
in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
For the Lord God is a sun and shield. The Lord will give grace and glory,
no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly. O Lord of hosts,
blessed is the man that trusteth in thee. Psalm 85
Lord, thou hast been favorable unto thy land, thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob,
thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin, say la.
Thou hast taken away all thy wrath, thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger,
turn us, O God, of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease.
Wilt thou be angry with us forever? Wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations?
Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice in thee?
Show us thy mercy, O Lord, and grant us thy salvation. I will hear what God the Lord will
speak, for he will speak peace unto his people and to his saints, but let them not turn again
to folly. Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him, that glory may dwell in our land.
Mercy and truth are met together, righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Truth shall spring out of the earth, and righteousness shall look down from heaven.
Yea, the Lord shall give that which is good, and our land shall yield her increase.
Righteousness shall go before him, and shall set us in the way of his steps.
Psalm 86 Bow down thine ear, O Lord, hear me, for I am poor and needy. Preserve my soul,
for I am holy. O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee. Be merciful unto me,
O Lord, for I cry unto thee daily. Rejoice the soul of thy servant, for unto thee, O Lord,
do I lift up my soul. For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive, and plenteous in mercy unto
all them that call upon thee. Give ear, O Lord, unto my prayer, and attend to the voice of my
supplications. In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee, for thou wilt answer me. Among
the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord. Neither are there any works like unto thy works.
All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord,
and shall glorify thy name. For thou art great, and doest wondrous things. Thou art God alone.
Teach me thy way, O Lord. I will walk in thy truth, unite my heart to fear thy name. I will
praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart, and I will glorify thy name for evermore. For
great is thy mercy toward me, and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell. O God,
the proud have risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul,
and have not set thee before them. But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious,
long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me. Give thy
strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid. Show me a token for good,
that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed, because thou, Lord, hast holpened me,
and comforted me. Psalm 87. His foundation is in the holy mountains. The Lord loveth the gates of
Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob. Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God.
I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me. Behold Philistia and Tyre with
Ethiopia. This man was born there, and of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her,
and the highest himself shall establish her. The Lord shall count, when he writeth up the people,
that this man was born there. Selah. As well the singers and the players on instruments shall be
there. All my springs are in thee. Psalm 88. O Lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and
night before thee. Let my prayer come before thee. Incline thy near unto my cry,
for my soul is full of troubles, and my life draweth nigh unto the grave. I am counted with them
that go down into the pit. I am as a man that hath no strength, free among the dead, like the
that lie in the grave, whom thou remembertst no more. And they are cut off from thy hand.
Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit. In darkness, in the deeps, thy wrath lieth
hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah. Thou hast put away mine
acquaintance far from me. Thou hast made me an abomination unto them. I am shut up,
and I cannot come forth. Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction.
Lord, I have called daily upon thee. I have stretched out my hands unto thee.
Wilt thou show wonders to the dead? Shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah.
Shall thy loving kindness be declared in the grave, or thy faithfulness in destruction?
Shall thy wonders be known in the dark, and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?
But unto thee have I cried, O Lord, and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.
Lord, why castest thou off my soul? Why hidest thou thy face from me?
I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up. While I suffer thy terrors, I am distracted.
Thy feareth wrath, goeth over me. Thy terrors have cut me off.
They came round about me daily like water they compassed me about together.
Lover and friend, hast thou put far from me and mine acquaintance into darkness?